* 2014_01_15
```
‹rr_›
[18:04:00]Is the FreeBSD port targetted to ship vRouter + agent in regular Junos ? 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:04:08]We need to find a home for these... 
[18:04:25]rr: FreeBSD is targeted at OpenStack + FreeBSD (not junos) 
[18:04:53]Grzegorz: do you mind giving an overview ? 
‹gjbernacki›
[18:05:25]ok, so right I am working on porting vRouter module into Freebsd 11 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:06:26]Do you have a proposal on how to do netlink for freebsd ? 
‹gjbernacki›
[18:07:03]I was looking on routing socket,but it's hard to add new functionality to it without modifying kernel 
[18:07:15]I would like to keep all the code in separate module 
[18:07:34]so I created simple "contrail socket" and pass all the messages using this socket 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:07:42]That makes sense... 
‹gjbernacki›
[18:08:18]I still have some problems with it, but today I was able to run utils/vxlan and utils/vif tools 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:08:59]The vrouter agent also needs to have a platform specific module... do deal with netlink vs freebsd 
‹gjbernacki›
[18:09:54]yes, right now I focus on module, other guy is doing research on vrouter agent 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:10:31]Did you manage to chat with Anand K and Raja ? 
‹gjbernacki›
[18:10:59]we had conference call yesterday 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:11:31]Can you guys please send a minutes/report to the dev mailing list ? 
[18:11:58]It would be nice to make sure that everyone that wants to has access to the information of what is being planned 
‹gjbernacki›
[18:12:48]yes, we'll prepare the minutes 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:13:02]thanks... 
* Bapu has joined the channel
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:14:37]In terms of updates from my side: one thing that lots of people have been asking for is the neutron router API... 
[18:15:17]One of the engineers in the contrail team has started working on it... tentative date of Feb 15th... 
[18:16:08]This is for people trying to replace their OVS based setups with opencontrail and that want to use the neutron router API instead of the network-policy extension. 
[18:17:08]Anyone wants to bring up other topics ? and/or feedback ? 
‹dsetia›
[18:17:36]update on devstack: I synced devstack version of neutron (neutron + contrail driver on git@github.com:Juniper/neutron.git) from openstack. Tested on Ubuntu Precise server. 
[18:18:35]Added quotas extension in contrail driver which was missing. Was able to bring up VM etc. More testing on Fedora and Ubuntu 13.04 this week. 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:19:15]dsetia: is tempest functional now with devstack + contrail ? 
* der has joined the channel
* der has left the channel
* der has joined the channel
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:21:51]dsetia: u still there ? 
‹dsetia›
[18:24:33]It is working manually; Praneet is automating it now. 
‹rr_›
[18:25:04]Q: On which drivers/NICs where the vRouter data plane optimisations (Rx/Tx) tested/supported ?  
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:25:40]rr: we have tested mostly with Intel 10G nics 
‹rr_›
[18:26:04]do you remember which driver they use ? 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:26:04]some broadcom models have firmware bugs that cause optimizations to have to be turned off. 
[18:26:24]I don't have that info with me at the moment. 
‹rr_›
[18:26:30]ok 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:26:48]Raja is here with me now... 
[18:27:54]Intel IXGBE is the one that runs at full performance... 
* varadero has quit IRC ()
‹rr_›
[18:29:17]Thx .. I was just playing with 1G e1000e and igb drivers 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:29:26]Those work also... 
‹Bapu›
[18:29:41]Q: i want to see XMPP message data sent to the vRouter, is there a way to turn on the debug to see the data/configuration going from config node ->control Node -> vRouter? 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:29:45]But the performance is always line rate even without optimizations 
[18:30:25]Bapu: you can see that through the http interface... give me a sec to find a link... 
‹rr_›
[18:30:48]you mean to the agent right ? 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:30:59]http://10.84.24.12:8085/Snh_SandeshTraceRequest?x=XmppMessageTrace 
[18:31:16]Where 10.82.24.12 is the IP address of the agent... 
[18:31:30]All the deamons have a builtin http server... 
[18:31:55]https://github.com/Juniper/contrail-controller/wiki/Roles-Daemons-Ports 
‹rr_›
[18:34:11]what's the easiet way to debug agent to vRouter module ?  
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:35:16]The kernel module can be debugged via the command line utilities or by the agent http port 
[18:35:36]The agent http port will report the "ksync" state which has the contents of the kernel module tables 
‹rr_›
[18:37:01]and data plane for the first packets in the case of miss in the kernel ? 
[18:37:25]only for the acls cases of course  
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:37:44]tcpdump -i pkt0 
[18:37:50]And: http://10.84.24.12:8085/Snh_FetchAllFlowRecords? 
‹rr_›
[18:38:15]cool ! great one... 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:38:22]The second is the flow table in the agent... 
[18:38:56]Bapu: did i answer your question ? 
* mjn_ has quit IRC ()
‹rr_›
[18:40:02]Btw the issue with tcpdump -i pkt0 it is not vrf aware ...  
‹Bapu›
[18:40:04]yes Pedro, thanks. 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:40:17]rr_: sure... 
* der has quit IRC (Quit: Konversation terminated!)
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:41:52]Any other topics ? 
‹Bapu›
[18:42:26]Q: Can you point me to the control node source that does magic of parsing the IP-MAP request to see if it goes to netconf, BGP, or XMPP? 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:43:17]Bapu: ifmap configuration information is handled by the code in controller/src/ifmap 
[18:43:37]This is the module in the control-node that determines what pieces of the ifmap graph to send to each agent 
[18:44:10]The information here is things like: intance id, port id, network id, ACLs configured on the network 
[18:44:34]The ifmap info is wrapped in the XMPP channel to the agent 
‹nati_ueno›
[18:45:01]Hi sorry late 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:45:10]Reachability (routing) information is exchanged via BGP... this is information of what IP/mac prefix is reachable where. 
[18:45:34]netconf is not handled by the control node... 
[18:45:43]Hi Nachi... welcome. 
* nati_ueno has quit IRC (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
* nati_ueno has joined the channel
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:47:32]We need to figure out how to structure / host developer documentation... 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:47:32]We need to figure out how to structure / host developer documentation... 
[18:47:50]e.g. Bapu's question should be answered in a doc online, ideally... 
‹nati_ueno›
[18:48:01]pedro_r_marques: +1 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:48:06]Anyone has suggestions on how to host dev docs ? 
‹nati_ueno›
[18:48:22]pedro_r_marques: Google doc is good first step 
[18:48:25]for draft 
‹rr_›
[18:48:46]that's the format .. but the place should be wiki .. no ? 
‹nati_ueno›
[18:48:47]pedro_r_marques: however in future, we should have some sphinx branch 
[18:48:58]yes it should in wiki 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:49:20]We do have sphinx docs for API server... 
[18:49:46]http://juniper.github.io/contrail-vnc/api-doc/html/index.html 
‹nati_ueno›
[18:49:52]pedro_r_marques: yes. IMO, that's good direction 
[18:50:23]hopefully, we should have internal datamodel and internal api is documented 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:50:29]Nachi: please clarify... you are proposing sphinx, wiki or gdoc... 
[18:51:17]It seems to me that gdoc is easier for draft... and that wiki is easier to consume 
‹nati_ueno›
[18:51:19]I'm proposing gdoc as a draft for collaboration. sphinx as offical doc. Wiki should have pointer for wiki 
[18:51:46]Offical doc should be under the version control 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:51:53]Sounds reasonable... 
‹nati_ueno›
[18:52:11]sorry typo s/Wiki should have pointer for wiki/Wiki should have pointer for docs/ 
[18:52:40]so for now, let's start from gdoc and let have a pointer in wiki 
‹rr_›
[18:52:55]I guess important is also a good search engine scoped to all contrail docs. launchpad search seems to me searching entire launchapd 
‹nati_ueno›
[18:53:27]rr_: yes, we can do it when we let the doc offical 
‹rr_›
[18:54:09]well I mean even this copy of the IRC session .. no need to wait for official IMHO .. search helps answer questions fast 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:54:56]rr: we need to figure out how to archive irc meetings... i don't know the trick. 
‹nati_ueno›
[18:55:09]pedro_r_marques: we can use some ircbot 
[18:55:26]pedro_r_marques: I'll send how to do it later 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:55:37] thanks... 
‹rr_›
[18:56:16]well archive is easy ... copy and paste and place on wiki  I just did it 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[18:56:21]For today, i'll go back to my irc window and try to write some meeting minutes 
Anyone wants to start a gdoc for architecture / internals and be the "keeper of the index" ? 
[19:00:07]I'll start a new doc then... 
‹nati_ueno›
[19:00:17]pedro_r_marques: Thanks! 
[19:00:33]pedro_r_marques: [FYI] meetbot configration http://ci.openstack.org/irc.html 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[19:01:04]https://docs.google.com/document/d/16hxrvXLt1hJ9mmwUZWZV1XYlgf1rLO10p_gvLd5dpJc/edit 
[19:01:31]I'll try to add an index of topics based on some of the questions that i've seen posted... fill in some text 
‹nati_ueno›
[19:03:03]pedro_r_marques: could you add me a permission? 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[19:04:06]Please priv msg email addresses for who wants to be an editor. 
* Bapu has quit IRC (Ping timeout: 272 seconds)
‹pedro_r_marques›
[19:06:44]OK: if there are no additional topics to bring up we can close the meeting for today. 
‹rr_›
[19:06:54]Thx Pedro ! 
‹pedro_r_marques›
[19:07:13]Action items: works on arch document; meeting minutes to ML; FreeBSD port minutes to ML; 
[19:07:41]gjbernacki: can you please create a blueprint in launchpad for freebsd port ? 
[19:08:07]<meeting over> 
‹nati_ueno›
[19:08:39]Thanks! 
‹gjbernacki›
[19:08:48]thanks 
‹nati_ueno›
[19:08:55]dsetia: BTW, devstack is working on your env? 
[19:09:11]dsetia: It looks dataplane will be disconnected in my env 
* gjbernacki has left the channel
* nati_ueno has quit IRC (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
* nati_ueno has joined the channel
‹dsetia›
[19:15:19]I tested with Ubuntu 12.04 yesterday. I think you are on 13.04 which I have not tried lately. Will try today.
```